tensions on Israel's northern border
with Lebanon have also been escalating
the Israel Defense Forces have been
engaged in crossb fire with the
iran-backed militant group Hezbollah
which has been firing Rockets into
Northern Israel almost daily tens of
thousands of people on both sides of the
Border have been displaced residents of
Northern Israel say Hezbollah must be
pushed back to protect communities from
its Rockets many say it's only a matter
of time before a fullscale confrontation
Rebecca BR reports from the town of
Matula a town devoid of
people Matula just one example of the
many abandoned communities along
Israel's northern border with
Lebanon a soldier shows me around part
of the evacuated Town damage by missile
and anti-tank fire is visible almost
everywhere about 1 third of the homes in
Matula have been struck so
far Matula is one of the most dangerous
towns along the Lebanese Israeli border
it's surrounded by Lebanon on one two
three sides and is hit almost daily by
anti-tank missile fire in fact we're
told we have to keep on the move because
we're actually in the direct line of
sight of Hezbollah
Fighters just as we're wrapping up
there's a rocket alert and we have to
take
cover you right another heavy barrage
nearby
the military confirms around 65 Rockets
were fired into the area one of the
biggest strikes since the War
Began mayor David aolai says Rockets
aren't even the biggest threat
here the main threat against Matula is
anti-tank missiles they are missiles
that have no warning system we can't
stop
them aai is one of a few residents who
stayed behind part of a civil defense
team who are working with the military
to protect the
area Israeli officials have said for
months that Hezbollah need to be pushed
back from the border a strategy the
people living in these parts agree is
the only
option residents won't return here
without fighting without the removal of
Hezbollah from the fence we saw the
horrors of October 7th in the South and
therefore there's no other choice we
don't want war but we simply have no
other Cho
residents like carel renat feel the same
she and her family left their home in
another border Village on October 7th
and haven't been back I think uh we have
to see a change something must change
because we left our house without
nothing the family has spent the past
seven months in a hotel and only now
moved into this house about 40 km away
deep inside the government designated
safe Zone
carel says without military action to
push Hezbollah back she won't risk
returning home with her kids there is no
option with no war we must feel um all
the citizens of the north border or the
northern
border confidence again which we are not
it will end this situation of um
uncertainty right now we are living in a
big uncertainty and how long can people
live like that so we must see
something it's a position held by so
many as diplomatic efforts to broker a
truce continue to
fail Hezbollah insists that so long as
Israel refuses to end its campaign in
Gaza it will continue targeting
positions in Israel's
North no matter what happens these
communities are changed forever with
people putting Roots down in New places
while Israel's northern border turns for
now into no man's
land and Let's cross now to Beirut for
our bureau chief Muhammad sha could you
talk us through the latest updates of
the situation on on the Lebanese side of
the
Border well Ben allow me to pick up from
where the report and this is a key
element to analyze and understand the
situation on the Lebanese Israeli
uh border sobah has been clear about its
intention that the um ceasefire in Gaza
is the key to um any solution in
southern Lebanon so as of now the daily
exchange of fire between has and the
Israeli Army did not stop since October
8 except for some time during the um
truce in Gaza last November but since
then the military confrontation is a uh
daily routine even though in
inconsistent pace and um intensity but a
new round of escalation started last
Sunday since hasah since then hisbah is
is um announcing that it is carrying out
at least 9 to 12 military operations on
Israeli positions and Israeli uh towns
along the border with Lebanon and that's
that's uh per day compared to three to
six daily operations uh last week uh
only and this comes of course with
extens
fire force from the Israeli Army who
who've been uh carrying air strikes like
heavy air strikes on Lebanese uh towns
it is worth noting that this scenario of
escalation has been um repeatedly we've
been repeatedly uh seeing this
simultaneously with every round of talks
about a potential truce deal in Gaza the
Israeli defense minister warned of a
precarious summer ahead what are you
hearing from people in Lebanon
well there are mixed feelings and
expectations uh about a large scale war
in in Lebanon
unlike like what we've seen and and
listened to in the report uh from
residents in Northern Israel the
majority of Lebanese and mainly those
who uh used to live in the southern town
um um um in in southern Lebanon and and
mainly where hasah has extensive support
they don't want to go to war and they
don't expect a large scale War they do
Echo hb's leadership in saying that this
is not our war and uh what is happening
in the south is limited and and
calculated attacks to support uh uh Gaza
now there's a lot of public uh and
political divide on whether it did
support Gaza or not and on the fact that
hisbah Solly took the decision to launch
military operations on uh Israel without
consensus and without consulting his
Partners in the uh government but there
we are I mean with daily crossb shelling
and some
100,000 Lebanese refugees from homes and
and towns in south of Lebanon just like
in the North of Israel it is by far in
no man's land DW's Muhammad traitor
there thank you for chiming in